# The AirBnB Clone Project

## Project Description

This project constitutes the initial phase of the AirBnB clone, focusing on backend development and integrating it with a console application using Python's `cmd` module. Data generated by the application is stored in a JSON file and accessed using Python's `json` module.

## Description of the Command Interpreter

The command-line interface serves as the frontend of the web application, enabling users to interact with the backend developed using Python's object-oriented programming paradigm. The interface mimics a Bash shell, accepting a limited number of commands tailored for AirBnB's functionalities.

The implemented commands include:

- `show`
- `create`
- `update`
- `destroy`
- `count`

These commands allow users to perform various actions, such as creating, retrieving, updating, and deleting objects.

## How to Start It

### Installation

To run the project locally on a Linux distribution, follow these steps:

1. Clone the project repository from GitHub:

git clone https://github.com/dirarkh/AirBnB_clone.git

2. Navigate to the cloned repository directory:

cd AirBnB_clone


### Usage

The project can be used in two modes: interactive and non-interactive.

**Interactive Mode**: Run the console by executing the following command:

./console.py


You will be prompted with `(hbnb)` indicating that you can enter commands. Type `help` to see the available commands and their usage.

**Non-interactive Mode**: Commands can be piped directly into the console execution. For example:

echo "help" | ./console.py


This command will execute the `help` command without entering the interactive mode.

## Format of Command Input

Commands must be separated by spaces. In non-interactive mode, commands are piped into the console. In interactive mode, commands are entered after the `(hbnb)` prompt.

## Available Commands and What They Do

The following commands are recognized by the interpreter:

- `quit` or `EOF`: Exits the program.
- `help`: Provides information on how to use a command.
- `create`: Creates a new instance of a valid class and prints its ID.
- `show`: Prints the string representation of an instance based on its class and ID.
- `destroy`: Deletes an instance based on its class and ID.
- `all`: Prints string representations of all instances based on the class name.
- `update`: Updates an instance's attributes based on its class and ID.
- `count`: Retrieves the number of instances of a class.

## Authors

- Dirar KHEBRI
- Mathew Tuwei

